# Brief

## Dependencies

In general, we'd like the editor to have as few dependencies as possible, and to build on standard interfaces already shipped with modern browsers. If third party libraries are required, the following are already available on the pages the editor will be used:

 * JQuery (v1.8.3)
 * JQuery UI [Core, Widget, Mouse, Draggable, Droppable, Datepicker, Sortable] (v1.10.4)
 * Underscore (v1.5.2)
 * Backbone (v1.1.0)

None of these can easily be updated.

If you want to/need to add a new third party library, please check Avidity first.

### Bootstrap

There are a few Bootstrap JavaScript plugins available, but **please do not** use them as we plan to retire bootstrap during 2015.

## Features

This is a list of the desired features, not listed in order of preference. We may add, remove or alter features during the project pending the progress of the project.

### A. Text formatting options:

 * Bold
 * Italic
 * Bullet list
 * Numbered list
 * H1-H6
 * Left, right or center align a paragraph

### B. Raw HTML edit mode

The user should have an option to edit the raw HTML as it without the WYSIWYG options available. It should be possible return to WYSIWYG mode when done.

### C. Insert custom HTML

The user should be able to insert HTML by pasting or typeing it into a dialog and then having it inserted into the editor at cursor's previous position without leaving WYSIWYG mode,

### D. Insert link

The user should be able to insert a link by highlighting text, or at cursor position, and enter a URL (and optional text) into a dialog without leaving WYSIWYG mode.

### E. Paste clipboard unformatted

For the browsers that can support it, have a button that will remove any formatting in the clipboard before it is pasted into the editor

### F. Textarea based

The editor should be read and write HTML contents from a textarea.

### G. Multiple editors on same page and form

It should be possible to have multiple instances of the editor on the same HTML page

### H. Enable on dynamically inserted HTML code

Sometimes a form containing an editable textarea is generated by JavaScript

### I. The editor renders HTML.

 * No inline css. 
 * Classes can be used only for specific formatting, such as alignment. 

### J. Toolbar items should have tooltips

The text for the tooltips needs not to be hardcoded in the plugin so that we can translate it with our I18n system

### K. Icons for all items in the toolbar

The icons needs either be crafted, or have a license that allows commercial use.

### L. Embed Youtube/Vimeo videos

There should be a specific button to insert embedcode for youtube/vimeo videos

### M. Extendable

The editor need to be extendable so that new Promote specific features can be added.

## Compatability

Our users uses Windows 7, Windows 8, Mac OS X 9 and Ubuntu with the the following browers, where available:

 * Internet Explorer 9 *
 * Internet Explorer 10
 * Chrome
 * Firefox
 * Safari
 
_*) We can accept degraded features and performance on IE9 to get better compatability and better future proofing for other browsers._

### Tablets & Touch

The editor provide basic support for touch based devises, such as editing and text formatting.

